W-14792360 configure a network proxy gr (#479)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: pdk/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-pdk-configure-network-proxy.adoc

= Configuring a Network Proxy for PDK
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

If you use a network proxy to connect to the internet, you might have to define the network proxy for the PDK tools. Besides Docker, all tools downloaded in the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[PDK prerequisites] accept the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables. 

To configure your environment variable, refer to <<configure-a-network-proxy>>.

To use Docker with a network proxy, also <<configure-a-network-proxy-for-docker>>.

> NOTE: Depending on your network proxy, you may have to define the domains the PDK tools access in your proxy's allowlist.

Reviewer: Glenn, this should be "might" instead of "may."

= Configuring a Network Proxy for PDK
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> If you use a network proxy to connect to the internet, you may have to define the network proxy for the PDK tools. Besides Docker, all tools downloaded in the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[PDK prerequisites] accept the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a network proxy to connect to the internet, you might have to define the network proxy for the PDK tools. Besides Docker, all tools downloaded in the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[PDK prerequisites] accept the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables. 
```

To configure your environment variable, refer to <<configure-a-network-proxy>>.

To use Docker with a network proxy, also <<configure-a-network-proxy-for-docker>>.

NOTE: Depending on your network proxy, you may have to define the domains the PDK tools access in your proxy's allowlist.

[[configure-a-network-proxy]]
== Configure a Network Proxy

Configure the environment variables by running following command after replacing the variables with your information:

* `HTTPS_PROXY`:
+
[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----
* `HTTP_PROXY`:
+
[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----

If your network proxy requires authentication, use the following command:

[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<username>:<password>@<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----

> The PDK tools may visit the following domains during execution:

Reviewer: may > might

Did you think of a better word than "visit"? It is good to respond to a comment if you don't agree with it or if you can't think of a way to resolve it.

= Configuring a Network Proxy for PDK
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> If you use a network proxy to connect to the internet, it may be necessary to define the network proxy for the PDK tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use a network proxy to connect to the internet, you might have to define the network proxy for the PDK tools.
```

Reviewer: Is it obvious to the user when he/she must do this? If not, can you provide an example of when a user has to do this?

> Besides Docker, all tools downloaded in the xref:policies-pdk-prerequisites.adoc[PDK prerequisites] accept the `HTTP_PROXY` and `HTTPS_PROXY` environment variables. 

Reviewer: I suggest putting this in first paragraph.

> To configure your environment variable, refer to <<configure-a-network-proxy>>.

Reviewer: Combine this lead-in with the next one. 
To configure your environment variable or use Docker with a network proxy...

> To configure your environment variable, refer to <<configure-a-network-proxy>>.

Reviewer: Consider putting this in the first paragraph it doesn't look too long.

> To use Docker with a network proxy, also <<configure-a-network-proxy-for-docker>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Docker with a network proxy, also <<configure-a-network-proxy-for-docker,configure a network proxy for Docker>>.
```

[[configure-a-network-proxy]]
== Configure a Network Proxy

> Configure the environment variables by running following relevant command after replacing the variables with your information:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Configure the environment variables by running following command after replacing the variables with your information:
```

* `HTTPS_PROXY`:
+
[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----
* `HTTP_PROXY`:
+
[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----

If your network proxy requires authentication, use the following command:

[source,ssh]
----
export HTTPS_PROXY=<proxy-method>://<username>:<password>@<proxy-server>:<proxy-port>
----

> The PDK tools may visit the following domains during execution:

Reviewer: may > might

"visit the following domains" sounds funny: 
  "execute in the following domains"???
  "use the following domains"???

* Curl:
** `sh.rustup.rs`
* Git:
** `github.com`
** `anypoint.mulesoft.com`
* Rustup (Rust installation tool)
** `static.rust-lang.org`
* Cargo:
** `index.crates.io`
** `static.crates.io`
** `crates.io`
* Anypoint CLI:
** `github.com`
** `anypoint.mulesoft.com`
* npm (Anypoint CLI prerequisite):
** `registry.npmjs.org`
** `registry.yarnpkg.com`

[[configure-a-network-proxy-for-docker]]
== Configure a Network Proxy for Docker

xref:policies-pdk-intergration-testing.adoc[Integration testing] and xref:policies-pdk-debug-local.adoc[the debugging environment] require Docker.

Docker requires access to the internet to pull Docker images. To configure a network proxy for Docker, refer to the following Docker documentation for your relevant use case:

* https://docs.docker.com/network/proxy/[Docker CLI Client]
* https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/mac/#proxies[Docker Desktop on Mac]
* https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/windows/#proxies[Docker Desktop on Windows]
* https://docs.docker.com/desktop/settings/linux/#proxies[Docker Desktop on Linux]

> Docker may visit the following domains during execution:

Reviewer: Again, "visit..." doesn't seem like the right word.
